## for of vs for in

`for of`: This loop is basicallly used with arrays.

Example:

```javascript
const nums = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
const names = ["a", "b", "c"];
for (const n of nums) console.log(n);
for (const n of names) console.log(n);
```

`for in`: This loop is used with objects. This loop will give us all the keys of that object and through those keys we can access the values.

Example:

```javascript
const obj = {
  name: "Somnath Kar",
  roll: 26300119024,
  valid: true,
};

for (const key in obj) console.log(obj[key]);
```

## map, filter, and reduce

map, filter, and reduce these are array methods which are used to iterate over an array and perform an transformation or compution. Each may or may not return a new array based on the result of an function.

map: `map` is used for creating a new array from exsisting one by applying a function to each one elements of the first array

Example:

```javascript
let nums = [1, 2, 5, 4, 8, 3];
const multiplyTwo = nums.map((num) => num * 2);
console.log(multiplyTwo);
```

filter: `filter` method takes each element in an array and it applies a conditional statement against it, if the condition returns true the element pushed into the output array if the condition false the element does not get pushed into the output array.

Example:

```javascript
let nums = [1, 2, 5, 4, 8, 3];
const filterArr = nums.filter((num) => num > 3);
console.log(filterArr);
```

reduce: `reduce` method reduces an array of values down to just one value and just like map and filter it also takes an callback for each element of the array.

Example:

```javascript
let nums = [1, 2, 5, 4, 8, 3];
const sum = nums.reduce((acc, curr, i, arr) => {
  return acc + curr;
}, 0);
console.log(sum);
```

here `acc` is the result of the previous computation. `curr` is the current element.

## map vs forEach

`map` and `forEach` are array functions to loop through the items of the array but `map` does not modify the original array and returns a new array whereas if we do the same thing with forEach it will modify the original array and it does not return anything.
